docs: create KeptnApp reference page (#1391)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/en/docs/yaml-crd-ref/app.md

description: Define all workloads and checks associated with an application
weight: 10
---

`KeptnApp` specifies a concept of a running application with a list of workloads and the possibility to define pre/post deployment and pre/post evaluations checks
that should be executed at the Keptn application level.
It contains information about all workloads and checks
that are associated with a Keptn application.

## Synopsis

```yaml
apiVersion: lifecycle.keptn.sh/v1alpha3
kind: KeptnApp
metadata:
  name: <app-name>
  namespace: <app-namespace>
spec:
  version: "x.y"
  revision: x
  workloads:
  - name: <workload-name>
    version: x.y.z

>   - name: podtato-head-left-leg

Reviewer: we should either use placeholders or example names. Let's not combine these two styles together

Author: Fixed

    as part of the pre-deployment stage.
    Task names must match the value of the `name` field
    for the associated [KeptnTaskDefinition](taskdefinition.md) resource.
  * **postDeploymentTasks** -- list each task to be run
    as part of the post-deployment stage.
    Task names must match the value of the `name` field
    for the associated [KeptnTaskDefinition](taskdefinition.md) resource.
  * **preDeploymentEvaluations** -- list each evaluation to be run
    as part of the pre-deployment stage.
    Evaluation names must match the value of the `name` field
    for the associated [KeptnEvaluationDefinition](evaluationdefinition.md)
    resource.
  * **postDeploymentEvaluations** -- list each evaluation to be run
    as part of the post-deployment stage.
    Evaluation names must match the value of the `name` field
    for the associated [KeptnEvaluationDefinition](evaluationdefinition.md)
    resource.

## Usage

Kubernetes defines
[workloads](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/)
but does not define applications.
The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit adds the concept of applications
defined as a set of workloads that can be executed.

> A `KeptnApp` resource is inserted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `KeptnApp` resource is iadded
```

into the repository of the deployment engine
(ArgoCD, Flux, etc)
and is then deployed by that deployment engine.

> You can create a `KeptnApp` resource by populating the YAML file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a `KeptnApp` resource as a standard YAML manifest
```

* **kind** -- Resource type.
   Must be set to `KeptnApp`

* **metadata**
  * **name** -- Unique name of this application.
    Names must comply with the
    [Kubernetes Object Names and IDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names/#dns-subdomain-names)
    specification.

* **spec**
  * **version** -- version of the Keptn application.
    Changing this version number causes a new execution
    of all application-level checks
  * **revision** -- revision of a `version`.
    The value is an integer that can be modified
    to trigger another deployment of a `KeptnApp` of the same version.
    For example, increment this number to restart a `KeptnApp` version
    that failed to deploy, perhaps because a
    `preDeploymentEvaluation` or `preDeploymentTask` failed.
  * **workloads**
    * **name** - name of this Kubernetes
      [workload](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/).
      Use the same naming rules listed above for the application name.
      Provide one entry for each workload
      associated with this Keptn application.
    * **version** -- version number for this workload.
      Changing this number causes a new execution

>       of checks for this workload only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      of checks for the Keptn application and the new version of the workload.
```
